# Contributing

## Types of contributions

### New components

First check https://auro.alaskaair.com/component-status to see if the component you're looking for is ready, in development, or proposed.

When you're ready to start, run the following to generate a new component:

```shell
$ npm run create -- --name zinger
> Well done! The new HTML Custom Element auro-zinger has been created!
> Dir: packages/auro-zinger
```

### New features

(If I want to a new feature or change in existing functionality, what's the process?)

### Reporting a bug

(Before opening a new bug, where should I look? What minimum bits of information should I have ready before opening a new issue?)

## Development

### Prerequisites

- [Node.js LTS](https://nodejs.org/en/) and `npm`

### Install and build

```shell
$ npm install
$ npm run build
$ npm run build:watch
```

### Linting

```shell
$ npm run lint

# if you need to run a specific linter
$ npm run lint:js
$ npm run lint:styles
```

### Tests

To run all tests:

```shell
$ npm test
```

To run all tests with file watch:

```shell
$ npm run test:watch
```

To target specific tests during development, include the `grep` flag:

```shell
# for single-run
$ npm test -- --grep > packages/auro-example/__tests__/*.test.js

# with watch
$ npm run test:watch -- --grep packages/auro-example/__tests__/*.test.js
```

### Documentation

#### `custom-elements.json`

_An autogenerated document describing the component api and version._ Generated with many thanks to [web-component-analyzer](https://github.com/runem/web-component-analyzer). Storybook requires this and generates it before running. Keep in mind: the format is emerging and subject to change.

#### `README.md`

_A manual document on how to use each component._ Please be sure to update the `README` as needed, screenshots and animated GIFs are encouraged and can be added to `docs/`.

### stories

We use Storybook to demo components and their variants. To get started, open two terminals from the project root. One command will build the source components and watch for changes, the second command will serve Storybook:

```shell
# terminal 1
$ npm run build:watch
# terminal 2
$ npm run storybook 
```

Open http://localhost:8000 in your browser.

### Pull request

(If I open a pull request, does it need to link to an open issue? Who will review my request and how long will that take? Are there basics that need to pass: build succeeds, lint-free, unit tests pass, coverage met, documented and demo'd?)

## Code of conduct

(Let's make this a great place to contribute)